Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
Beware; for I am fearless, and therefore powerful.
Life, although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.
I do know that for the sympathy of one living being, I would make peace with all. I have love in me the likes of which you can scarcely imagine and rage the likes of which you would not believe. If I cannot satisfy the one, I will indulge the other.
If I cannot inspire love, I will cause fear!
There is something at work in my soul, which I do not understand.
I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel.
Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions, seems still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth.
The companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
There is love in me the likes of which you've never seen. There is rage in me the likes of which should never escape. If I am not satisfied int he one, I will indulge the other.
The world to me was a secret, which I desired to discover; to her it was a vacancy, which she sought to people with imaginations of her own.
How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have of life even in the excess of misery!
When falsehood can look so like the truth, who can assure themselves of certain happiness?
The whole series of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force of reality.
Man," I cried, "how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom!
With how many things are we on the brink of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our inquiries.
I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.
The fallen angel becomes a malignant devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
It is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another.
Listen to me, Frankenstein. You accuse me of murder; and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise the eternal justice of man!
Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by slight ligaments are we bound to prosperity and ruin.
God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very resemblance.
I have love in me the likes of which you can scarcely imagine and rage the likes of which you would not believe. If I cannot satisfy the one, I will indulge the other.
The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
Learn from me, if not by my precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge, and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be his world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow.
Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope and fear.
I am alone and miserable. Only someone as ugly as I am could love me.
If I see but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.
It was the secrets of heaven and earth that I desired to learn.
I could not understand why men who knew all about good and evil could hate and kill each other.
A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his tranquility.
If the study to which you apply yourself has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human mind.
Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?
I was doomed to live.
I am malicious because I am miserable.
My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading.
Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not.
Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows. Return as heroes who have fought and conquered, and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe.
Nothing contributes so much to tranquillize the mind as a steady purpose-a point on which the soul can focus its intellectual eye.
Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so hideous that even you turned from me in disgust?
The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings of human nature.
A mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study.
Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to a mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on a rock.
If the study to which you apply yourself has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human mind.
I looked upon the sea, it was to be my grave.
Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous, and magnificent, yet so vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and godlike.
Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow; Nought may endure but mutability!
A dream has power to poison sleep.
One wandering thought pollutes the day.
I desire the company of a man who could sympathize with me, whose eyes would reply to mine.
I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised by the novelty of these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy.
He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance.
For an instant I dared to shake off my chains, and look around me with a free and lofty spirit; but the iron had eaten into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my miserable self.
I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind, and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self.
Heavy misfortunes have befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains, and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live.
What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man?
We are fashioned creatures, but half made up.
My spirit will sleep in peace; or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus. Farewell.
Unhappy man! Do you share my maddness? Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught? Hear me; let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!
I see by your eagerness, and the wonder and hope which your eyes express, my friend, that you expect to be in formed of the secret with which I am acquainted. That cannot be.
Evil thenceforth became my good.
If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.
In other studies you go as far as other have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder.
Devil, do you dare approach me? and do you not fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head?
My reign is not yet over... you live, and my power is complete. Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost to which I am impassive.
One as deformed and horrible as myself, could not deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species, and have the same defects... with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being.
Excessive sorrow prevents improvement or enjoyment, or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for society.
You hate me; but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.
I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched.
You are my creator, but I am your master; obey!
Be calm! I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head. Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to increase my misery?
Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant shade.
Alas! Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders them more necessary beings.
All men hate the wretched.
Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one of us.
